To set this stage for the experiences in our program,
I'd like to talk to you for a few minutes on the theme,
invigorate your ministry, how?
You dear brothers and sisters are having a regular share
in the preaching work, and just think of the results.
Each year, about two billion hours are spent in the ministry.
Millions of Bible studies are conducted,
and those being baptized number into the hundreds of thousands.
If you are a kingdom publisher,
you have had a share in those thrilling statistics.
But there's a potential danger with so much to do in our life,
not just in the ministry,
but also with secular work, family responsibilities,
for some even health issues, we can get into a rut.
It's not always easy to detect it first,
because in this age of technology, we always feel busy,
but what consumes our day?
Watch this one-minute video,
and try to detect what's going on in the life of one brother.
His life is in a rut.
Try to figure out why.
Would you say that this brother's life is in a rut?
Oh, he's active all day.
He always has something to do,
but it says if his mind has been kidnapped by his devices.
Have you ever had the experience of reading an email
while someone is trying to tell you something?
It can be embarrassing when you realize
that they've asked you a question,
and they're waiting for an answer,
but you have no idea what they asked.
It's embarrassing, right?
But what if the person who is trying to speak to you
is Jehovah?
Even though we aren't doing anything wrong,
our daily routine can occupy our attention so much
that we are not able to hear the refreshing words of Jehovah.
That can happen to any one of us.
Even our spiritual activity can get into a rut.
One Christian sister described it this way.
I would go out and serve us, go to meetings, study,
pray, but I did it all on automatic control,
never feeling anything.
Have you ever felt that way?
Do you see all the happy servants of Jehovah
whose experiences appear on JW Broadcasting?
And you say to yourself, why can't I find that joy?
Why is my ministry in a rut?
Perhaps you feel like a remote control train
that goes around and around on a track,
working the same territory with the same partner,
saying the same thing at each door.
Of course, there's nothing wrong with being in a good routine.
But being in a rut can sap our energy
and take the joy out of our service.
We can even come to view our ministry as boring.
Of course, we feel invigorated when we get good results.
We meet an interested person going from door to door.
We're invigorated.
And an active person approaches the cart
and wants to get in touch with the local congregation.
We're even more invigorated.
We start a Bible study.
We're on top of the world.
I'm sure you'll agree.
All those outcomes are good reasons for joy.
The problem is that we're not always in control
of getting those outcomes.
In real life, we may spend an entire morning
in the door to door work without meeting an interested person.
We may spend months making return visits
without starting a study.
And once again, our ministry can get into a rut.
Now, don't misunderstand.
It's not that we're doing anything wrong,
but we're not getting the full joy out of doing what's right.
Of course, Satan would love it
if our service to Jehovah were to fall into a rut.
He would love it if we lost our joy.
If we lose our joy, we lose hope.
We lose strength.
And we might even begin to feel like giving up.
The point is this, brothers and sisters,
if you feel that your ministry has fallen into a rut,
don't be discouraged and don't give up,
there are ways that we can invigorate our ministry
and serve Jehovah with renewed joy.
To illustrate that,
maybe you've had the frustrating experience
of locking yourself out of your house or apartment.
Of course, with a key, opening the door is simple.
A locked door might seem like an obstacle,
but it isn't if you have the key.
And the same is true with invigorating our ministry.
If we've fallen into a rut,
if we've lost that feeling of joy in our service,
there are a number of keys that can help us unlock the door.
Let's look at one.
Open your Bible to 1 Corinthians chapter 16, verses 8 and 9.
Now, in these verses,
the Apostle Paul was presented with the key of opportunity
and he used it to open a door.
1 Corinthians 16, 8 and 9 says,
But I am remaining in Ephesus
until the festival of Pentecost
because a large door that leads to activity has been open to me.
Here, the Apostle Paul found a key
and it didn't require moving to another location.
In this case, the key was to stay where he was
but to take fuller advantage of an opportunity right before him.
Sometimes, the key to getting out of a rut in our ministry
is to take advantage of opportunities we have right where we are.
For example, have you considered auxiliary pioneering
or regular pioneering?
What about learning a foreign language
with the goal of helping a nearby group or congregation?
Opening one door often leads to other doors of opportunity.
For example, a brother named Jacob wrote this,
When I was seven, many of my classmates were Vietnamese.
I wanted to tell them about Jehovah,
so after a while, I made plans to learn their language.
For the most part, I learned by comparing the English
and Vietnamese editions of the watchtower.
I also made friends in a nearby Vietnamese language congregation.
When I was 18, I started pioneering.
Later, I attended the Bible school for single brothers.
This helped me with my present pioneer assignment
where I am the only elder in a Vietnamese language group.
Many Vietnamese people are amazed
that I have learned their language.
They invite me in and often I can study the Bible with them.
Some have progressed to baptism.
The point is, our ministry is what we make it.
If we allow ourselves to remain in a rut, it will be boring.
If we use our keys, if we take advantage of opportunities
that present themselves, we will invigorate our ministry
and give it new meaning.
This doesn't always involve putting in more time
in the ministry.
It could mean that we simply make the best use of our time
as Ephesians chapter 5 and verse 16 says.
In fact, there is a saying, don't work harder, work smarter.
The key to working smarter could be as simple
as switching things up a bit.
For example, could we work with different publishers
instead of the same one all the time?
Could we try a different approach to our presentation?
Perhaps making better use of the Bible or our videos?
Could we engage in other aspects of the ministry
such as cart witnessing or phone witnessing?
Could we use our time more effectively to reach people
when they're most likely to be home?
Here's something else we could do to unlock a door
and invigorate our ministry.
Open your Bible to Acts chapter 16 verses 9 and 10.
Now here, the Apostle Paul found a unique way
to unlock a door to greater joy.
Acts 16, 9 and 10 says,
And during the night, a vision appeared to Paul.
A Macedonian man was standing there urging him
and saying, step over into Macedonia and help us.
As soon as he had seen the vision,
we tried to go into Macedonia,
drawing the conclusion that God had summoned us
to declare the good news to them.
Notice, Paul didn't think of all the reasons
he couldn't step into Macedonia.
No, he took action as soon as he was presented
with the opportunity.
Paul unlocked the door to invigorate his ministry.
Sometimes we think that only those who are young
can reach out to pioneer or to serve where they need us greater.
But that's not always the case.
You parents may be able to unlock a door
of opportunity for yourselves
and think of the example you set for your children
when you do so.
That's what a mother named Tara discovered.
I started pioneering when my youngest daughter
was in elementary school, she says.
It was important to me that my children see me serving Jehovah
to the best of my ability as I encouraged them to reach out.
Tara's husband, Anthony, saw the effect
that his wife's pioneering had.
And in time, he too joined the ranks.
This is what he said.
When Tara became a pioneer, it made an immediate impact
on daughters number one and number two,
and they became pioneers.
When I became a pioneer, daughters number three
and number four followed.
I wish I had pursued full-time service sooner
as it made a huge impact on the spirituality
of the family.
I can relate to this experience
because of the good example of my parents.
My mother was baptized in Canada in 1940 when she was 16.
Jehovah's Witnesses had just been banned in Canada.
Her father had already died
and her mother was opposed at that time.
The brothers had very little money,
but they encouraged my mother to pursue spiritual goals.
With that encouragement,
she started pioneering in 1942,
while the ban was still on in Canada.
In 1947, she was invited to become a special pioneer
in the province of Quebec.
At that time, special pioneers were required
to spend 200 hours each month in the ministry.
With basically no money and no family support,
she accepted that assignment.
This picture was taken when she and her pioneer partner
were boarding the train to Quebec.
Whenever I see this picture,
it reminds me of the intrepid spirit that my mother had,
not being afraid to take on a challenging assignment
but putting complete trust in Jehovah.
That spirit encourages me even to this day.
My father has that same spirit.
In the summer of 1976, when I was 11 years old,
a new arrangement was announced at our district convention,
auxiliary pioneering.
You could be an auxiliary pioneer
if you could devote 60 hours in one month to the ministry.
The month of October, 1976, had five weekends.
My father encouraged our whole congregation
to try auxiliary pioneering that month.
So many brothers and sisters, including me,
decided to get a taste of pioneering.
It was a wonderful experience that I will never forget.
Parents, your good example will help your children
to have a living ministry of their own that they will love.
Brothers and sisters, if you find yourself in a rut,
there's no reason to stay there.
We've discussed several ways to reinvigorate our ministry
and with Jehovah's help, we will be successful.